> Être / Avoir

    To Be and To Have

    'Être' and 'avoir' are the most common verbs in French. Like many common verbs,
    they have irregular conjugations.

        Subject	        Être ("to be")	     Avoir ("to have")
        je/j'	          (je) suis	          (j')ai
        tu	              es	              as
        il/elle/on	      est	              a
        nous	          sommes	          avons
        vous	          êtes	              avez
        ils/elles	      sont	              ont

    There should be a liaison between 'ils' or 'elles' and 'ont' ("il-zon" or "elle-zon").
    The "z" sound is essential here to differentiate between "they are" and
    "they have", so be sure to emphasize it.

    These two verbs are very important because they can act as auxiliary verbs
    in French, but they differ from their English equivalents. In "Basics 2",
    you learned that "I write" and "I am writing" both translate to "j'écris",
    not 'je suis écris'. This is because 'être' cannot be used as an auxiliary in
    a simple tense. It can only be used in compound tenses, which you will learn
    in the "Passé Composé" unit.

    Another important distinction is that 'avoir' means "to have" in the sense of
    "to possess", but not "to consume" or "to experience". Other verbs must be
    used for these meanings.

> C'est or Il Est?

    When describing people and things with 'être' in French, you usually can't
    use a personal subject pronoun like 'elle'. Instead, you must use the
    impersonal pronoun 'ce', which can also mean "this" or "that". Note that 'ce'
    is invariable, so it can never be 'ces sont'.

                    Impersonal Subject Pronoun	Personal Subject Pronoun
        Singular	       c'est	                  il/elle est
        Plural	           ce sont	                  ils/elles sont

    These pronouns aren't interchangeable. The basic rule is that you must use
    'ce' when 'être' is followed by any determiner—for instance, an article or
    a possessive adjective. Note that "c'est" should be used for singulars and
    'ce sont' should be used for plurals.

        C'est un homme.     — He's a man. / This is a man. / That is a man.
        Ce sont des chats.  — They're cats. / These are cats. / Those are cats.
        C'est mon chien.    — It's my dog. / This is my dog. / That's my dog.


    If an adjective, adverb, or both appear after être, then use the personal pronoun.

        Elle est belle.     — She is beautiful. (Or "It is beautiful.")
        Il est très fort.   — He is very strong. (Or "It is very strong.")


    As you know, nouns generally need determiners, but one important exception
    is that professions, nationalities, and religions can act as adjectives
    after 'être'. This is optional; you can also choose to treat them as nouns.

        He is a doctor. — Il est médecin. / C'est un médecin.


    However, "c'est" should be used when using an adjective to make a general
    comment about (but not describe) a thing or situation. In this case, use
    the masculine singular form of the adjective.

        c'est normal ? — is this normal?
        non, c'est étrange. — no, this is strange.



> Idioms with Avoir

    One of the most common idioms in French is the use of the verb 'avoir' in
    certain places where English would use the verb "to be".
    This is especially common for states or conditions that a person may experience.

        Elle a chaud.       — She is hot. (Or "She feels hot.")
        Il a froid.         — He is cold.
        Elle a deux ans.    — She is two years old.
        J'ai peur !         — I am afraid!


    French tends to use the verb faire ("to do") idiomatically for general
    conditions like weather. Note that 'il fait' is an impersonal expression
    with no real subject, just like 'il y a' from "Common Phrases".

        Il fait chaud.  — It is hot (outside).
        Il fait froid.  — It is cold.
        Il fait nuit.   — It is nighttime.
